---
title: 2018-05-01 Agenda
meeting_time: 2018-05-01T15:00:00Z
---

The main item for this week's meeting is finishing up the submission for
FORCE2018.

# Proposed Agenda

1. Agenda review
2. Introductions to new people
3. Status of current action items
    - Coalesce thoughts from last weekâ€™s discussion for the FORCE2018
    submission [Katie - IN PROGRESS - see new approach:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Nxk5RXfp28Ykh-SGJNjNQBu0nFfWQAaHq6GC7BJiuOs/edit#bookmark=id.69e1971igri1]
    - Continue working on the blog post
        - Serialize the blog post thoughts and add titles to each installment
        [Chris - NOT YET DONE - will try to have something by tomorrow]
        - Contemplate and capture the questions we should be asking about
        channels/methods of publishing/disseminating it. What should this look
        like for the Scholarly Commons? What is needed?
    - Invite the people from SciPost [Ivar - IN PROGRESS]
4. Topics Project: tighten our mainstay
    - Blog post for FORCE11 site:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gm7-TftBb1b4umM-uNIImqrmJNW9v1zRqy7490HuPgs/edit
5. FORCE2018 
    - https://www.force11.org/meetings/force2018
    - October 11-12, 2018 in Montreal, Canada
    - Submissions are due May 1 <%=
    short('https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScmcNJs2dx361_YZmekXNn7k8YtMKoFI1G1Rx1Ske6HVrDhGA/viewform')
    %>
6. Action items and suggestions for next week's agenda
7. Post call summary and wrap-up
