SCWG WG4 Telecon Minutes for 2017-08-28

Agenda:
  https://goo.gl/m29Dzh
Topics:
  1. Agenda review
  2. Introductions to new people
  3. Status of current action items
  4. Questions relating to WG purpose and operations
  5. Action items and suggestions for next week's agenda
Present:
  Chris Chapman, Bruce Caron, Nate Jacobs, Ian Bruno, David Farmer,
  Sonja Blum, Ivar Martin, Katie Chapman
Audio:
  https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-Du-YbryiJyRklMOWZsV0hDSzA

Chris Chapman: So, we'll get started.

Topic: Agenda review

Chris Chapman: Just a quick agenda review. I wanted to go through some
  introductions, and then talk about some of the action items from last week.
  Some of these questions, like, do we use Zoom, how we do the calls and
  meeting minutes and whatever, and I wanted to get a better idea of what our
  purpose is as a group. That's really my biggest goal for today. If anyone
  else has thoughts or anything else that they want to talk about, go ahead
  and add them to the agenda. Unless there are questions, let's go ahead to
  the introductions.

Topic: Introductions to new people

Chris Chapman: I see we have several new people on the call today. Maybe we
  can start by introducing the new people.
Katie Chapman: Can everyone put their names in as a participant please? Those
  of us that aren't on Zoom can't see who anyone is.
Chris Chapman: In the agenda?
Katie Chapman: Yeah, in the agenda. Sorry!
Chris Chapman: Who would like to go first? David, I know you're on the call,
  do you want to go ahead and introduce yourself?
David Farmer: Sure. So I'm David Farmer. I work at the American Institute of
  Mathematics (AIM), which is in San Jose, CA. We're a research institute. Our
  main activity is week-long focus workshops in all areas of the mathematical
  sciences. So in addition to being an administrator and helping run
  workshops, I also develop tools to foster collaborative research. One of
  those is a better way of reading preprints online. PDF is no fun for reading
  on your laptop, and its almost impossible on your smartphone, so we're
  developing HTML versions of papers that are better. We're using those same
  tools also for open source textbooks. So I'm kind of interested in tools
  that help people work together and help people find the information and read
  the information better.
Chris Chapman: Great.
David Farmer: Is that enough detail?
Chris Chapman: Yeah, that's great. Any questions for David?
Katie Chapman: Yes, and this is for everyone. If you weren't on the call last
  week and didn't really introduce yourself, will you synopsize that in the
  agenda, please? And we'll just kind of take group notes like last week. Is
  that right?
Nate Jacobs: Yep. I think so.
Chris Chapman: Yeah.
Chris Chapman: OK. Thank you, David. I see Ian. Do you want to introduce
  yourself?
Ian Bruno: Hi, can you hear me?
Katie Chapman: (yes)
Chris Chapman: yep
Ian Bruno: Hi, my name's Ian Bruno. I work at the Cambridge Crystallographic
  Data Center. ... business and research data for over 50 years. I was
  involved in the steering group of the original FORCE11 Scholarly Commons
  project, and my reason for joining this call is because I'm keen to see how
  we move forward based on what we've during that time in any kind of
  practical way.
Sonja Blum: It was entirely my fault that I didn't hear any of that.
Chris Chapman: Are you calling through the computer, Ian?
Ian Bruno: I am calling through the computer, yes.
Chris Chapman: though Zoom?
Ian Bruno: I am. Let me just try changing audio devices. Just bear with me.
Katie Chapman: And was that Sonja who said that, since you're the only other
  female that I see in the participants? It makes it easy to recognize some
  names! Did you just have your sound off, or were there others that couldn't
  hear what Ian said as well?
Nate Jacobs: I heard it - it just sounded echoey a little bit.
Katie Chapman: OK. So do you want to recap, Ian? Or do you want to just read
  what he writes, Sonja?
Sonja Blum: That's fine. I can just read it, especially if I'm the only one
  who ...
Chris Chapman: It was a little muffled for me too...
Katie Chapman: Sonja, you haven't introduced yourself yet, have you?
Sonja Blum: Nope, nope. I am a neurologist. NYU. And I am also an artist. I'm
  basically affiliated with NYU and the Art Institute of Chicago, and I not
  directly involved in any big-data analysis or formally examining new
  scholarly platforms, but I'm very interested in where we're going with that,
  and also hybrid forms of knowledge production that kind of blend science and
  art, in particular, to my practice. But in general, kind of more hybrid
  forms.
Katie Chapman: Awesome.
Chris Chapman: Great.
Nate Jacobs: Cool.
Chris Chapman: Is Ian back? ... maybe we'll catch him if he's not back yet.
  Are you back now Ian? ...
Chris Chapman: Does anyone from last week want to re-introduce themselves to
  the group, or should we move forward?
Katie Chapman: It might be nice to review, at least for those of us who are
  not on Zoom to have everyone say their name again, so we can hear voices and
  names, so we know who's talking as we go forward. And I'm Katie.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah, I'm Nate Jacobs, and I have a background in neuroscience
  research at UCLA, but I actually just recently left my postdoc to get up to
  speed with some mobile and web development, which I'm also doing at UCLA in
  the OIT department.
Katie Chapman: Cool.
Chris Chapman: I'm Chris Chapman. I'm part of a startup that's working to
  change or improve how research is published.
Bruce Caron: I'm Bruce Caron. I'm the community architect for the ESIP (Earth
  Science Information Partners). We're an organization of earth science data
  providers and users.
Ivar Martin: So I'm Ivar Martin. I'm a theoretical physicist. I'm working at
  the Argon National Lab. I'm also one of the cofounders of the project called
  knowen.org, which is an online framework for collaboration and potentially
  publishing.
Chris Chapman: Great. Thank you. And just so everyone is aware, we are trying
  to get these calls transcribed, so that we can have a record of them.

Topic: Status of current action items

Chris Chapman: So I set up a channel in Slack. If we're not going to use Slack
  for calls, we can change the channel name or whatever we need to do to talk
  about some of this enabling technology stuff. We're just thinking, for those
  that weren't on the call last week... Slack is a live chat application. You
  have to join it, so there's an invite that's listed in the agenda. We're
  working alongside the CommonsPatterns group, which is led by Bruce Caron who
  is on the call. They're looking at... I could let you explain it a little
  bit more, Bruce...
Bruce Caron: Sure. CommonsPatterns is looking at how do we envision the
  academy as innumerous commons that are self-managed in various ways, but
  coordinated with each other, and have a way to create their own internal
  economy. So what does this look like, if we start from scratch, in a way?
  And we're working with a lot of the people who are doing commons in other
  arenas, and we're working with a lot of open science folks who ... beyond
  open. Because open is just the first part of what the new academy might be.
Chris Chapman: Thanks Bruce. So if you haven't joined, go ahead and join, and
  we'll see how things evolve there. I don't think we have any definitive
  plans, at least now how that will happen. Katie, did you have something?
Katie Chapman: I'm not figuring out how to join...
Chris Chapman: OK. There's a link... 
Katie Chapman: Like I clicked the link and it takes you over...but I put in my
  email and there's nothing, like it says that I'm not invited, or something
  to that effect. So I'm not sure...
Bruce Caron: Give me your email, and I'll send you a direct invite. I don't
  know what's going on there...
Katie Chapman: Sorry, I'm not sure ... I may just be doing it wrong. I will
  just paste it. It's probably easier if I just paste it...
Sonja Blum: And also this is Sonja, but I haven't even found the link... I'm
  still kind of struggling to find an invite to join.
Bruce Caron: I'll put it into the agenda. It's in the chat. I'll throw it into
  the agenda.
Nate Jacobs: It's in the agenda also under ...
Katie Chapman: Under number 3.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah.
Sonja Blum: Oh. Got it.
Chris Chapman: It's the limitless island link.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah it's like a third party to help.
Chris Chapman: Yeah.
Nate Jacobs: So there is a little bit of ... getting onto Slack teams, but
  once you're in there it's great.
David Farmer: I filled out my email, but I don't yet have it in my inbox - the
  invite.
Chris Chapman: Okay. I was supposed to send some info about the FORCE2017
  submissions. I haven't yet, but I think we'll talk more about them later on.
  Is that all that there was as far as action items from last week?
Katie Chapman: I think so. There was the thought to just get on and wander
  around Bruce's group and get the feel of what they are doing, but since
  there are Slack issues, that I don't think has happened probably.
Chris Chapman: Yeah. So are you Anonomous Kangaroo, Katie?
Katie Chapman: Shoot, got me! If that's who you see typing, then that's me.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah.
Katie Chapman: Then yeah, I guess I am.
Chris Chapman: Let's move on then to topic four: Questions relating to WG
  purpose and operations.

Topic: Questions relating to WG purpose and operations

Chris Chapman: I think we kind of hit on the first item. I just wanted to talk
  a little more about meeting minutes or transcript and the agenda. My own
  thoughts are that (does everyone have the Google Doc agenda?) So I think  we
  can keep notes topically in the agenda, but I also think it would be useful
  to get a play by play - like we're recording this meeting, so having a
  transcript and having that available for people to read would be good as
  well. So does that sound good to everyone? Are there any concerns with that?
Bruce Caron: I think my own concern is how long does it take to make a
  transcript? And how useful is a transcript? If we have an audio recording we
  can always go back to that. It seems like someone is volunteering to do a
  lot of work.
Chris Chapman: That's a good point.
Nate Jacobs: Chris, just go for it if you feel strongly about it. To me it
  seems a little bit premature, but if you get all the workflow worked out,
  and at some point, and this group keeps expanding, it might be good to have
  that in place at that point in time.
Sonja Blum: Also it might be useful to have a repository of the audio as links
  that can be listened to. It doesn't necessarily have to be transcribed, or
  you can can use something like Dragon Dictation or another automated voice
  to text translation tool.
Chris Chapman: That's a good thought.
Katie Chapman: When you sent that email, Chris, I hadn't thought even at all
  about someone who couldn't listen to the audio. That had not ever crossed my
  mind. So that is a thought. But bigger thought is I think it's a fun
  experiment. I don't know how much it will be of use, but it's a fun
  experiment to see if we can use these meetings in scholarly way as we go
  forward. Some of the things that were said last week are things that I could
  see myself wanting to refer back to. This person had this gem nugget of
  thought that was really beatifully put, to be able to refer back to that,
  but in a ... rather than to an audio file that's an hour long, to that spot
  on the transcript. If it was referenceable, would be possibly useful. But
  again, it would be totally an experiment because I have never done that
  before.
Ivar Martin: It seems like for sure it will be much easier to search. Say you
  remember something that was from a conversation, but you don't feel like
  trying to track it down in the audio, that's wonderful. The only concern
  from my side is that Chris is doing humongous amount of work. But as long as
  that's sustainable, I think that's a very nice thing to have.
Chris Chapman: We'll see about the sustainable, but as long as everyone's okay
  with experimenting with it. I'm interested to see how useful something like
  that would be in a scholarly context, so ...
Ivar Martin: So maybe we can get some public software from the NSA...
Chris Chapman: That's a good idea. They're probably listening on to this call
  and maybe they'll just appear.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah.
Chris Chapman: Okay. I'll send out some more info about that this week to get
  thoughts as far as a workflow, and more specific questions.
Nate Jacobs: So, actually this is only tangentially related, so a lot of what
  I'm thinking about is user experience and how to...we have all the
  technologies to do whatever we want. I'm trying to think about what you
  should do, and what unintended consequences are.
Chris Chapman: Right.
Nate Jacobs: This is me saying something kind of extreme just for the purposes
  of to see what happens, but this idea of...we can record the conversations
  and do the transcripts, but then it's interesting to also think about how
  that might potentially change people's behavior if they know they're being
  recorded. I don't really care what I say - I'm kind of more impulsive about
  saying things, but I do wonder about someone who's more shy. Would that
  change the user experience for them, where they might be even less likely to
  say something if it's like...I don't know. I'm just throwing it out there
  just because we're talking...
Nate Jacobs: So that's one thing I've been thinking about...do we need...is
  the goal to have everything open? Or is the goal to clearly define areas of
  like: this is not going to go on the official record vs it is. And how do
  you like...where that boundary is. I feel like that's an interesting
  conversation just all on its own. And maybe there's ways of recording but
  then anonymizing...so that's kind of just some general thoughts that I've
  been picking at in the back of my brain.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, those I think are part of the purpose of this group. And
  that's why I've been wanting to try something a little different, is to
  figure out some of these questions. As far as our group goes, I'm totally
  fine with off the record during the calls, and like I did last week, I think
  it is good to get the transcript approved by the people who were invoved
  beforehand, before it becomes public. If they want to take something out, I
  think that's totally great. We're not the NSA, and I think choosing what we
  want to have publicly available is important - to be able to have that
  choice. I think it would be good to keep track of these questions and
  thoughts about these things. I think that could be a good thing as a...I
  think that's part of the next step in the scholarly commons, trying to find
  out how does this work.
Sonja Blum: I would just add in terms of the recording. One thought I have is
  that if the calls are being recorded, then they should be publicly available
  to the group. That content should be just made entirely available to
  everyone who is part of the group rather than it being I don't know
  where...kept somewhere. You know, at all times accessible to everyone.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, and we had a discussion with the people from the meeting
  last week. I've already made a transcript of it, and we were just trying to
  get some details worked out. So the recording from last week will be
  publicly available as well. Today or tomorrow probably, so...
Sonja Blum: Okay, great.
Chris Chapman: Any other thoughts about this? Any other questions that you
  have about this, let's keep track of them. And this might be a good action
  item, is to actually start collecting some of these questions so that we can
  add to them.
Katie Chapman: I like that, because I think those questions really help us to
  understand the situation that we're talking about. What is it that we really
  want here? and what does that mean? what does that look like? Why does it
  matter? They seem like little, insignificant questions when we talk about
  our meeting being recorded, being transcribed. It's a little thing. And it
  seems only really relevant to the few of us. But as we talked about it, I
  think it could have a lot of implication for understanding what is it that
  we really think that is needed? what is it that we hope to see in the
  scholarly commons? what are some of those principles that we need to be
  based upon?
Chris Chapman: There's something else, Nate, that you said as part of this.
  Thinking from a user perspective is really critical to what we do and to the
  scholarly commons. I think a lot of the efforts so far with the scholarly
  commons have been focused more from the researcher's perspective, like what
  does the researcher need to do research. But we haven't really talked about
  what does someone need to use that research? who are the users of the
  research, and how could we help them have what they need? I think that
  changes a lot of the questions.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah, for me, my bias is probably because I have a research
  background, I tend to focus a lot on the researchers. For me, a lot of the
  users are researchers, so my perspective might be a little biased and
  pigeon-holed into that perspective as well. But that makes sense.
Chris Chapman: And how much of that perspective...I know we talked a lot about
  peer groups and knowledge clubs...how much of that is a result of the
  current publication system, where people just didn't have access to journals
  unless they are in that domain? and how much of that is due to...or is that
  an effect of the current system.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah it will be interesting to see for example will citizen
  science stuff become more commonplace if there are easier entry points. I
  think there is going to be fundamental differences between the people that
  are in the tight research circles that are living and breathing it everyday,
  and people that are coming in sort of more public...but it will definitely
  be nice to have less barriers there, just to have a little bit more
  cross-pollination...yeah it will be interesting to see.
Chris Chapman: Okay, any other thoughts about the agenda or transcripts?
Ivar Martin: Maybe just another point in support of transcriptions. I think
  really it's a good thing in order to lower the barrier for the people who
  are coming in, let's say the new guys who joined the meeting today. For them
  it makes a huge difference whether you can just sort of skim through the
  transcript which takes like 5 minutes, or whether you have to really
  dedicate one hour of your time to listening to a sometimes not very coherent
  discussion. So I think it's particularly the initiation of the group, I
  think that's really a great thing. I'm not sure if it's going to be
  necessary to have that if the group stabilizes roughly, sort of all the same
  characters reappearing every week. But in the beginning its really, at least
  for me, if I missed the previous meeting, I think it would be a great
  resource.
Nate Jacobs: Slack is also good for that sort of functionality, where you can
  kind of jump into the informal conversations and get up to speed, because
  you can obviously scroll back and search and stuff.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, that is one thing...
Ivar Martin: Yeah, but I guess there's effect of presence. Like when you
  read a transcript you really kind of...
Nate Jacobs: Yeah everybody's there...
Ivar Martin: ...you feel like you're almost there, yeah.
Chris Chapman: Okay. Let's move on to the next subtopic. I think we've hit on
  some of it: Review of thoughts and facets of our purpose from last week.
  Obviously if you weren't on the call last week you wouldn't know what to say
  here, but I guess something I wanted to bring up as well is...I think Ivar,
  you talked about this from a point of view that I hadn't really thought
  about it before, but the potential for citizen science. To me, and looking
  back on it I think this is my whole viewpoint, even in the creation of this
  company, but that we need ways to open up research to more people to allow
  anyone to get get involved. That to me is important in the scholarly
  commons, and I think there is a lot that we could do as a group to think
  about how to do that. That's just one thing I wanted to say. Are there any
  other thoughts from our discussion last week?
Nate Jacobs: So I had another call at 9 so I may have dropped off a little
  earlier, but I think the other thing that excited me about this group is
  that I'm...so I've been thinking about these just from a researcher's
  perspective, and it just until very recently that I've been able to start
  thinking about it from a technological perspective, so I'm still pretty new
  to a lot of what exists out there. If you have a computer science background
  it might be simple or trivial, but I'm still going through everything. So I
  think I also like the idea of picking specific technologies or specific
  things and just talking about them, maybe almost introducing them in a more
  simple, basic way, and then second step, going in to figure out how to
  potentially use them in a scholarly communications system. I thought it
  would be cool if we pick a topic like interoperability and talk about what
  people are doing in any context or any application, to go with
  interoperability and APIs and things like that. And then as a second step
  bring it in...like how would we use that. I know Chris you've been good at
  sending me various links to different things that you're excited about. So
  that's like another thing that I thought would be interesting, to go back
  and forth between like just on a more basic conceptual level, making sure
  we're getting exposed to all different kinds of technologies and things like
  that. I don't know. That was kind of a general statement. Kind of also to
  bridge the gap to people that don't have a strong tech background or maybe
  at different levels of the spectrum.
Chris Chapman: (agrees)
Katie Chapman: I like that too. A lot. And we've talked about this a little
  bit via email before. I think that gives us a lot of flexibility to look
  at it from multiple perspectives, as we do that we can bring in a lot of
  perspectives to get a better idea of really what we're looking at and what
  we want to be seeing.
Nate Jacobs: The other thing that's nice about this too is if we could get
  people that don't have strong tech background in the conversation it also
  helps with...one of the other side-projects I'm trying to work on is this
  idea of scholarly communication communication: how do we communicate what
  we're doing? and pitch it to a broader audience? If you have to explain
  technical things to somebody that has never used that technology or never
  developed anything then it kind of forces you to use broader terms and get
  to the core of it.
Katie Chapman: I'm happy to help with that part. That is part of why I'm here
  frankly because I feel like the things that are discussed are so important
  but sometimes they are, even if you can access it quote unquote, doesn't
  mean I can actually access what was just said. I'm like okay I caught two
  words of what you just said, and it was an 'and' and a 'the', and the rest
  didn't mean anything. I mean not really, but I feel like there's definitely
  some communication barrier. It's a different language. So for those of us
  like me that are not particularly technical, it's a definite thing to think
  about. So I am happy to help with that part.
Ivar Martin: Yes, actually as far as the resources, as far as what's out
  there, what people use. So in the agenda from last week I saw this little
  snippet that was added, which I guess we didn't discuss explicitly. It goes
  under item 3f, Bianca's work.
Nate Jacobs: (affirms)
Katie Chapman: Oh yes.
Ivar Martin: And that was kind of curious. I mean it was very condensed, it
  was hard to make out, how to really interpret the data, and I guess I didn't
  go into too much detail...I think there's a blog post that goes along with
  that. But it seemed like the did quite a bit of work surveying what people
  use, what people use more commonly together...
Nate Jacobs: So that was really focused on whole websites and tools and
  platforms, which is interesting, definitely interesting. I think I was kind
  of hoping to go a little more granular than that, so like how is
  ResearchGate...if they're doing something that's with interoperability or
  whatever it is they're doing, or indexing, kind of like a little deeper than
  that, but that's definitely a good starting point, because that's a
  comprehensive list of all the different domains and platforms that are out
  there.
Ivar Martin: And how did they manage to do that? I mean 20,000 respondents.
  I mean, that's pretty amazing.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah. That's what they do. I think they spend a lot of time on
  it, and they're on podcasts and really promoting it. You know, spent a lot
  of time and elbow grease.
Ivar Martin: Interesting. So is this also part of FORCE11 or is this something
  else?
Nate Jacobs: No, I think Bianca and Jer...well, Chris, maybe you know better.
  I thought that they just did that through their own library...
Katie Chapman: yeah
Chris Chapman: Yeah, the original project is separate, but they are...
Katie Chapman: But they presented a poster 2 years ago at the FORCE11
  conference, and a lot of the FORCE11 community got involved in that work at
  that point. They were like oh, this is really interesting. I think didn't
  they win best poster that year or something?
Chris Chapman: Yeah, I think so.
Katie Chapman: Anyway...
Chris Chapman: They've been involved in the scholarly commons working group
  from the beginning...
Ivar Martin: (affirms)
Katie Chapman: Yeah.
Ivar Martin: Interesting. Yeah, because that couldn't be cheap. To run this
  kind of survey sounds pretty amazing.
Nate Jacobs: Well they're still analyzing it, and pulling stuff out of it,
  so...
Ivar Martin: I see, I see.
Katie Chapman: Right.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, and I can say along with Nate, and what I'm hoping we can
  do with this group as well is to see more granular, more what is it that
  people use and why. More on the functionality side I want to say.
Ivar Martin: (affirms)
Nate Jacobs: Well it's kind of weird in my mind, because it's more granular,
  but in some levels it also allows to get more broad conceptually. I don't
  know how to explain that very well, but focusing on the actual underlying
  technologies and how they're moving or accomplishing specific high-level
  conceptual things.
Chris Chapman: Sounds like the spaceship is landing.
Katie Chapman: Yeah, again I think that they'rs a lot of room for a lot of
  perspectives. And I think if we go a little bit between those broader
  tools...for instance we were talking earlier about Slack. Is this a useful
  thing for our group? and if so, in what ways? then taking that a step
  further and saying what are the specifics of Slack, technically and user
  experience-wise that make it most useful? what are those takeaways we can
  take from that conversation that help us understand where we're headed and
  what we need?
Ivar Martin: Yeah, interestingly enough, I don't see Slack in the list of apps
  that they have here.
Nate Jacobs: I think it started to get popular a little bit after...
Ivar Martin: Yeah, yeah...
Katie Chapman: Yeah.
Nate Jacobs: ...I feel like in the last year or two it's kind of taken off.
Ivar Martin: Right, right.
Katie Chapman: Yeah.
Ivar Martin: Yeah, I guess that's part of the issue. Some of those tools are
  going to be ... come and go.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, yeah.
Katie Chapman: Yeah. A lot of the...
Nate Jacobs: Another...
Katie Chapman: A lot of the...I'm sorry go ahead.
Nate Jacobs: Another thing I have been trying to think about is how to chunk
  things. I think there's this assumption that, in terms of the commons, we're
  moving towards this big pot, and everybody's going to be sharing everything
  all the time. But I kind of have this feeling that it's obviously not going
  to be that simple, and we're still going to have fairly clear divisions
  between things that are productivity tools versus things that are more
  formal publication tools. I don't know if I'm right about this or not, but I
  feel like that might be a human nature issue or psychology issue that we're
  not going to really overcome. So should we also think about these in terms
  of these different domains? or do we really think that we will be able to
  break down all these barriers and it will just be this constant sharing of
  everything all the time? I don't know. I mean it's a little bit of a
  cynicism in there, but you know...
Ivar Martin: Maybe the point is that one should have an option to share. You
  don't have to, it's like you don't have to tell all your secrets to us.
Nate Jacobs: (affirms)
Ivar Martin: But probably you don't have the framework in place - the
  technology in place - which would allow you to share efficiently if you
  choose so.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah.
Katie Chapman: And I think really there may be things that lend themselves
  more to being shared, and things that don't. And that is something that
  we're going to have to look for. What are things that intrinsically are of
  value if shared, whereas some things really are not of intrinsic value to be
  shared. Like, for example, our conversation earlier about these phone calls.
  Do we record them? do we transcribe them? do we share those transcripts? are
  they of value? That's a question that is important to find an answer to, and
  then I think if it's not really important, maybe that's something that isn't
  necessarily a common-pool resource. It's not something that we're going to
  all share with everybody everywhere, because it only relates to that group.
  But maybe it is, and maybe we find that out, or there are things that are
  and things that aren't as we go...like I think again it's a granularity
  question, and being willing to say okay these things really intrinsically
  are important that we be able to share, and these things, it's just not as
  important. And that flexibility I think has to be there, that we can
  interact with things that are not the same. Like we need to be able to use a
  journal article that is behind a paywall, and be okay to use that even if
  we're trying to be as open as we can with what we're doing. And things like
  that. I think that flexibility is important.
David Farmer: Is part of your point that you not only want to find out about
  the things you care about, but you want to shield yourself from the things
  that just give information overload and aren't relevant to you.
Chris Chapman: I think that's the hope, at least one of my hopes, with making
  this stuff machine readable, is that machines can help sort through some of
  that stuff.
Sonja Blum: One of the concerns there is that if you only see things kind of
  similar to the social media network platforms, things that you have quote
  unquote liked or things that matter to you, that runs the risk of echo
  chambers and actually limiting access to information that you might
  otherwise encounter just by chance if you were accessing a printed form of
  the journal.
Nate Jacobs: yeah.
Sonja Blum: So I definitely do have serious concerns about echo chambers.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah.
David Farmer: I think that's a concern of the algorithms they use and how it's
  done. It's definitely good to not find out about stuff that's irrelevant to
  you. There's just so much stuff out there.
Sonja Blum: (affirms)
David Farmer: So maybe we haven't solved the problem of how you avoid the echo
  chamber problem, yet also filter out irrelevant things.
Sonja Blum: Of course, of course. That's a really important question, but I
  just want to highlight the concern, just obviously we should be very mindful
  of the echo chamber problem.
Katie Chapman: And even within your own field, I think you can lose
  things...like of you, you worked in both your research field as well as in
  art. You don't want to miss things in either one. And there may be things
  going on in another field that really are relevant; they're using very
  similar processes to you, similar methods, and they're looking at things
  similarly, but from say a different scientific field, but they're also
  connecting it with art. That's something you wouldn't want to miss because
  it's in the wrong chamber.
Nate Jacobs: (affirms)
Sonja Blum: Right.
Ivar Martin: Maybe that's something that, in principle, could be addressed if
  the user could have some sort of control, how strong a filter you apply. You
  feel adventurous, or let's say you're more relaxed, you don't have a
  deadline, so you can dial it back. You let more quote unquote noise into the
  system. It's like when people go to Starbucks to work. They do that because
  they want to be distracted a bit. They want to be perhaps a bit more
  creative than just sitting in their office blocked off with no sounds
  penetrating.
Sonja Blum: Right. And that's...because most of my life I've spent actually
  purely in neuroscience and in neurology doing research and researching in
  PubMed and whatnot, and reading print journals. Sometimes you get a
  surprise, you just stumble on things by chance that end up being very useful
  to you. So I think that I definitely would not want to have severe limits on
  what you might encounter in your searching. But obviously if you're looking
  for a super targetted search then there should be a way...it would be nice
  if there was a way to make it very, very narrow. But that should not be the
  default in my opinion.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah. One thing that's interesting in this conversation is,
  looking outside of academics, if you look at something like Instagram, it's
  much more biased towards social follows and likes and all that stuff. But
  then they do have...if you go to search for something, they do have a whole
  discovery mechanism that's putting random stuff in front of you. So it would
  be kind of interesting to think through how they're doing that, and then on
  the other end, which is less social, something like Apple News, or like news
  aggregators, where it's not just up to who you're following, but then
  they also still are tracking what you're liking. So I feel like there's kind
  of a spectrum here and it's interesting to think about what part of that
  spectrum we should land at, and then potentially having feedback to dial it,
  like you guys were saying, to different levels.
Chris Chapman: And I think something else to keep in mind, going back to the
  user perspective: you don't really know what could be useful for
  scholarship or for research. I think we had discussion before where a
  newspaper wouldn't be considered scholarship, but could it be used for
  scholarship? Sure.
Nate Jacobs: (affirms)
Sonja Blum: And that's also one of the interests that I have, when I mentioned
  in the introduction hybrid forms. I'm also interested in when you're
  searching, being able to access information from different forms of data
  presentation. Not just necessarily the purely empirical data, but something
  maybe even from newspapers or whatnot. Just consider a blend of hybrid
  sources accessible to the user as well.
Nate Jacobs: And obviously if there's a way to have a lot better metadata so
  you could search for all articles that used a particular method or something
  that would be really awesome. I think people are working on that pretty
  hard, but it would also help a lot with discovery.
Katie Chapman: And I think that goes back to the idea of having more things
  that are machine-readable. So that it's maybe not even just the metadata
  that's readable, but how things are being interacted with? what is more of
  the data saying, and more of the logical thought process? Things like that.
  If we could understand those things more from a machine perspective, so that
  we can for example...a machine that is trying to give you results that are
  useful to you could be seeing what your process is, what your train of
  thought is, something like that. It would be a lot easier to show you more
  productive results, I think. Not just better metadata, but just better data,
  I guess is what I want to say.
David Farmer: I think we're going to have to change the way people write
  documents in order to have that information embedded in there. And I think
  that's a huge hurdle to get over, because there aren't good tools for doing
  that, and people have to learn new things, which they don't like to do.
Chris Chapman: That's a good point David, and I think that the way that we...I
  don't think it's going to be paper based. I think we're going to have to do
  things more granular to be able to do that (in some way).
Nate Jacobs: (affirms)
Ivar Martin: Yeah, I think I would agree with that. I think at least in my
  mind that would be quite ideal both for the practitioners, the
  professionals, but also for the public. And by public I mean, let's say,
  undergraduate students, maybe even just people who have a bit of background
  in sciences, but they're doing different types of day jobs. Because if there
  is a bigger narrative which is evolving, let's say climate science, right?
  It's on everybody's mind. And one could follow where the new developments
  are and how the discussion is evolving. That would be very useful, as
  opposed to reading even some fantastic review paper in the New York Times or
  reading something on CNN.
Katie Chapman: Yeah.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, wow. I moved down the FORCE2017 submissions. I thought we
  could probably discuss them later. I'll send an email out later once we have
  ours publicly available. But time has flown! Are there any other thoughts
  on...if we could bring this back down to the group and how we do things, or
  how we do things or what we do?
Katie Chapman: What I want to say is that this was amazing. Like the things we
  talked about are amazing things that we need to discuss further. So like all
  of it.
Bruce Caron: I just want to say that it is good to get more people, different
  people on the calls. Maybe to invite some talks and some people doing
  technology. There's a group sponsoring FORCE17 and they're doing a whole
  layer of publishing technology and things like that.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, is that the Coko Foundation?
Bruce Caron: Yeah.
Chris Chapman: Is Nate still on the call? Because I know that he's worked a
  little bit with them. Do you know much about them or do you want to
  share...?
Bruce Caron: No, I just saw their website today.
Chris Chapman: Okay, okay.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, let's check that website out (https://coko.foundation)
Ivar Martin: Well I guess one risk that we're running if we basically stick to
  this call format is that...I think right now we're approaching the
  borderline. We have 7-8 people. Still it's possible to have a conversation.
  I guess I'm hoping nobody is feeling shut out. But if there are 20 people,
  I think the group pyschology works in a way that there will be a couple of
  people talking and the others are going to be listening in, coming and
  going.
Chris Chapman: Yeah.
Ivar Martin: So we would really have to think of a way to take this discussion
  to the ... just conversational format.
Chris Chapman: Yeah. I would love to have that problem where we have too many
  people on the call. I think we'll have to see how it goes and keep that in
  mind for sure.
Ivar Martin: It could be essentially self-limiting. That's also part of the
  issue. Right now we're on the second call, and indeed that would be a good
  problem to have, but if we see over time that people are coming and going,
  and particularly the new people. They may feel like the don't exactly know
  what's going on, so they stay quiet then they don't come back. That would be
  a sign that something's not working as well as we wish it would.
Chris Chapman: (affirms)
David Farmer: Earlier people were talking about 'what tools were out there, and
  I want to know what tools are out there'. I don't want to know that. I want
  to know what people want to have happening. I'd really like us to develop a
  huge list of scenarios describing what someone's doing, and what the effect
  is, and how it's good. Because you can't evaluate the tools if you don't
  know what you want to do with them. So here's an example that follows up
  what I said earlier: I write a paper on something, and I submit that. I put
  it on my webpage or whatever. Embedded in the source is my ORCID id.
  Embedded in the source are various tags describing the topic and the method
  used that were taken from some central database by the experts in that
  subject. Now all of a sudden, my paper's machine readable in a way it wasn't
  before, because there's no looking for keywords. There's actual tags of
  actual topics. And then some other website notices that and adds me to some
  catalog of things. So I'd like to see from everyone several scenarios
  describing how in the future things will work better, and I'm sure it will
  be revealed that there's no tools out there that really let this happen, or
  else the tools aren't being put together in quite the right way.
Chris Chapman: (affirms)
Kate Chapman: (affirms)
Chris Chapman: Yeah, that's a really good point, and I'm glad you brought that
  up David. Do you have any suggestions how to move forward with that?
David Farmer: I mean a Google Doc, where each person just adds scenarios would
  be perfectly fine. And you would want it to be as a narrative telling a
  story: this person working in this area does that. And it should start out
  brainstorming like. So you just make this crazy futuristic scenario about
  what could happen. There's nothing wrong with that. Eventually we'll run out
  of steam, and then we can say which of these are actually realistic? which
  of these are actually supported by tools? which of these could one conceive
  of a tool? which are way out there? Because I don't even know what all of
  you do, or all of you want to do in this alleged commons [were it to
  exist?].
Chris Chapman: Yeah.
Sonja Blum: Yeah. I mean I agree that that's an extremely, extremely necessary
  step for me at least. In general I think it's really useful to have both the
  lay of the land - sort of what's being done - and also maybe a wish list.
  Maybe just starting with this summary of what's actually out there, how
  people are presenting their data, publicly online, and what works, what
  doesn't work. But also, I think it will be useful...because I think a lot of
  people, including myself, still have concerns about just putting stuff
  openly on...even though there's huge increase in computer literacy and
  coding, and sort of understanding what's happening on the Internet, there's
  also a huge amount of...it's like a black hole to a ton of people,
  especially in terms of intellectual property, copyright, and just what is
  happening to the information that you're actually putting out publicly. I
  think that's a really, really important wing of whatever this group does: to
  clarify, summarize those kind of intellectual propery and copyright issues.
David Farmer: Well I'd like to hear you write a scenario describing when
  somebody does something and somebody else tries to infringe upon them, and
  what happens, and how people know about it.
Chris Chapman: And Bruce just put a comment. He also has a place where he's
  collecting ideas, and I think scenarios [would be included] in there.
Bruce Caron: Sure, Yeah.
Chris Chapman: I also want to know from you, Bruce, I know we're over time,
  but what is the difference between what you're going for with patterns of
  scholarly commoning and the scenarios that David is talking about?
Bruce Caron: So patterns try to work both from problems to solutions and
  solutions then back to context. So using design patterns is a way to distill
  and synthesize a layer of understanding above what the scenarios are. So
  scenarios are like the grist for that mill. And I think it's great to have
  someone say well this is my vision for how this part of the academy could
  work better in the future. It doesn't have to be a solution that's already
  been tried. It's a solution you have some idea would work in the future. And
  then we have another sort of idea: this is something that's really broken.
  So you can have a scenario: I tried this and it really didn't work. Or
  there's something in the process that really holding me up, taking my time,
  wasting my life. So we can collect those too. I think it fits in pretty well
  with what David was talking about.
Chris Chapman: So some of these scenarios I guess...what you're saying is that
  we could extract patterns from them?
Bruce Caron: Right.
Chris Chapman: Okay.
Bruce Caron: Yeah, patterns are a little more focused and synthetic, and they
  really isolate how a problem space can find a set of solutions spaces. The
  whole point of why they're not practices or good practices, although they do
  inform good practices, is that you can have have any number of solutions
  coming off of a pattern that solve a problem that you have right now.
Chris Chapman: (affirms)
Bruce Caron: Again it's a way to move the conversation beyond just let's open
  everything up and hope everyone shares.
Chris Chapman: Yeah.
Chris Chapman: Okay so check out Bruce's ideascale things. Bruce put a link in
  the agenda for that...because you have two...
Bruce Caron: Yeah. We'll have other challenges and things, but the point here
  is that you can also get comments, and the comments are really
  important...build from one idea into something that can create a pattern.
  You can comment on other ideas too. A lot of these ideas came out of the
  FORCE11 conversations for the scholarly commons a year ago.

Topic: Action items and suggestions for next week's agenda

Chris Chapman: Great. And really quickly before we end: does anyone have
  suggestions for what we talk about next week?
Sonja Blum: This last bit that we talked about in terms of taking practical
  next steps to summarize practices that I've ... so far. I guess just
  finishing up on that, sort of how to do that, and maybe strategizing,
  dividing up that work.
Chris Chapman: Okay. And someone else, is that Ivar?
Ivar Martin: Yeah, yeah. I just wanted to comment. I think actually David's
  idea as a way forward and to frame our thinking was a Google Doc where we
  would put together scenarios and organize them perhaps by topic or by...I
  don't know, whichever way we decide to diagonalize that...I think that would
  be actually a fun exercise that everybody can participate in, and I think it
  will be actually quite useful.
Chris Chapman: Okay.
Ivar Martin: And to make it really targetted, indeed. Maybe some of the things
  which are practices of the present day to what we see could be a good
  evolution of them in the future, what would be, kind of be, the endpoint.
  Yeah. I think that would be really cool.
Chris Chapman: Okay. Great.
Katie Chapman: My one other thought is just looking over some of those
  questions that were brought up or throwing other questions out there and
  just starting some of those conversations, maybe in the same way. Start a
  Google Doc of questions, maybe. Just some things to start brainstorming
  around different...and I guess it's kind of the same thing. It's just
  looking at it in terms of maybe more granular questions or really broad
  questions, not necessarily a specific situation scenario. That way we can be
  working from whatever direction our brain is clicking at the moment. We can
  be progressing with any of those things.
Chris Chapman: Okay, thank you. Anything else we need to bring up before the
  end?
Katie Chapman: no
Chris Chapman: Okay, thank you all. This has been a great call.
Ivar Martin: Thank you.
Chris Chapman: I will send an email out with the transcript as soon as it is
  ready, and then you can have the option to adjust anything. I'll send an
  email out as well with how we want to actually...like where we want to put
  the transcript, or these meeting notes and stuff.
Chris Chapman: Okay.
Sonja Blum: Okay thank you.
Chris Chapman: Thank you! Have a great week.
Bruce Caron: Thanks everyone.
Ivar Martin: Alright, thank you.
All: Bye-bye!
