---
title: 2018-08-21 Agenda
meeting_time: 2018-08-21T15:00:00Z
---

Jeff will not be available to join us again until mid-September, so my thought
for this week's call is, in addition to some Claimspace discussion, to bring in
a few other strands that need some attention including some prep for our
workshop at Force2018 and a status update to the group.

# Proposed Agenda

1. Agenda review
2. Introductions to new people
3. Topics project: Claimspace (re-prep)
    - Let's try to refine and add more questions. Link to the Claimspace doc:
    <%=
    short('https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ANzu-0LiV-4lZQ5zIZqIQ75QVJxioXoEfU3H_dR8VRI/edit#')
    %>
5. Various discussion topics (as time permits)
    - Review of email to the group to update the group on where we are
    - Prep for our workshop for Force2018. Link to original submission: <%=
    short('https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Nxk5RXfp28Ykh-SGJNjNQBu0nFfWQAaHq6GC7BJiuOs/edit#bookmark=id.eb90672muu7g')
    %>
6. Action items and suggestions for next week's agenda
7. Post call summary and wrap-up
